hey saster fans welcome to another
episode of the cro confidential podcast
I'm your host Sam blonde today we have
uh an incredible guest a really close
friend of mine former colleague and the
person I consider to be the best Revenue
operations leader on the planet um in
addition to that World Record She also
holds the world record for longest job
title the senior vice president of goto
Market strategy operations and
enablement at Guild education formerly
held that same role at brex alongside me
trishas sha uh I'm ecstatic to have you
joining me here today and welcome to the
Pod thank you Sam and uh you're not the
first one to to to make to to comment on
I would say comment on the length of the
title or just how little it actually
says about what we do so thank you it
can be it can be both very literal and
also non-descript depending on who
you're and then we can add some acronyms
and make it even better exactly we were
we were joking before we jumped on SVP
GTM s soe something like that there go
there we go it's uh really nondescript
okay um so today's episode as one might
expect is going to be all about re
Revenue operations um sales operations
go to market operations pick your poison
um related to uh the the sort of
terminology you'd like to use this is a
topic and function that I care deeply
about and um as
context uh prior to to learning more
from charishma most sales leaders myself
included start in sales um and so
background and I think that the sort of
common path for VP of sales cro um
depending on the leveling of the sales
leader is something like start as an SDR
promoted do an AE promoted into Sales
Management and then you sort of progress
your career through that uh uh um
promotion path and the skills that are
required through that experience lack
many of the operational skills that are
required for a revenue org to be
successful ful and so the things that
come to mind most immediately are things
like systems you know I'm certainly not
like a technical person that is in and
out of Salesforce and updating the way
that opportunities flow in which fields
are required those sorts of things
anything that's process related and then
tradish where I think you spend a lot of
your time around like uh data analysis
and deriving strategy from uh the trends
in that data and so enter this
operations function um and I as I
mentioned before sort of uh something
that's near and dear to me I attribute
so much of my personal success in the
success of the teams that I've been a
part of to this function and Trisha
specifically to you um as as it pertains
to brex um and so with that let's jump
in why don't we um set the stage of bit
and tell us a little bit about your
background and what you're up to
today thank you Sam I will say that's a
very hard act to follow now that you've
set me up uh but it has it it's been
incredible working with you and knowing
you uh as a colleague and as a friend so
I'm excited about the about the time we
spend together here too so um uh in
terms of my background I have a
background that one could consider both
unique but also common for this this
kind of role and I'll explain a little
bit more uh I started my career as an
architect and planner right I know you
don't think of architecture and Strat s
soe together
but here we go uh and that's where um
kind of the uniqueness ends and then
after that went to business school went
on to do Consulting worked at a large
company and then went up to more of the
startup route or not even like a
complete um a startup that scaling right
and I think we'll talk a little bit
about that scaling in a bit uh and you
often see that for this profile right
some people who have that kind of
background uh and then the biggest
things that I have solve for and
continue to look for in terms of what I
take on uh are are around at I look for
am I am I solving some of the biggest
challenges that can have significant
impact on the business am I constantly
learning right that is very important
and then finally am I working with
Incredible people so exhibit Sam
uh I am now a mom of an adorable
eight-year-old uh and I live in the Bay
Area
and I lead the strategy Ops and
enablement S soe function for Guild uh
and a little bit about Guild this is
like the mission of the company is to
unlock opportunity for America's
Workforce through education Skilling and
career Mobility I'm very proud of that
mission so yeah that's me now amazing
amazing background you're very humble as
you talk through your experience a
couple things that stand out that I
think might be helpful to others when
looking for the type of profile um and
and we'll talk through about a bit of
the evolution of this type of role as
well but tiisha prior to joining brex
you were at McKenzie for a number of
years um doing management consulting and
then had sort of like a what I will call
Real World experience you would probably
do it better Justice by I'm describing
but you were at Google for a number of
years which is interesting because
Google is such a large company compared
to brex prior to you joined but it
seemed that that mapped um far better
than maybe like a traditional sales role
for whatever reason um yeah I think
that's a really good point and I think
we'll talk about this a little
bit through the conversation as well as
we think about like what does good look
like in this in this role and in this
function and oftentimes what I've
noticed is
um having someone who's worked in the
same industry right or having someone
with deep type of customer knowledge
right like Enterprise versus B
like that may not be as while it's great
to have right because they are able to
snap really quickly to say understanding
what an Enterprise sales cycle looks
like but at the same time I think what
is more critical is to get the right
capability mix right like are these are
these people strong operators can they
roll out the sleeves and actually think
about day-to-day processes connect the
dots and also take a step back and think
long term think proactively about what
do I look what do I need to look worry
about three or four uh quarters out so I
think it's what I have seen even as I
I've built these teams before is that
it's that profile that becomes much more
important than the industry experience
so that makes a lot of sense all right
well I I think the way that we'll
structure this conversation is a little
bit of a journey through the startups
life cycle um and we have an audience
that ranges from uh founders that are
just getting started hopefully on the
way to building a a really big business
and it might just be a couple Founders
all the way to some of the uh largest
businesses in the world and so why don't
we start um just sort of like the the
company life cycle and uh we'll start at
a bit of the highest level um and before
we even jump into like when is the right
time to invest in this function why
don't we start with how do you define
revenue
operations yes and why is it Revenue
operations and stuff as so right like so
I think it's a very interesting question
uh Sam because I think it's important to
to tie that to a number of different
titles and and roles that you will see
across um different companies right so
I've heard this being called just plain
go to market I've heard this team being
called go to market strategy and Ops
I've heard this team being called
Revenue Ops and sometimes even just in
the earlier stages being called like
sales Ops or marketing Ops right um that
said I think it's also important to to
call out that this is incremental to
what is what a traditional sales Ops or
marketing Ops function looks like
because Revenue operations essentially
touches multiple functions across the
sales cycle right all the way from like
starting with marketing and sales and
thinking about all of the Specialists
that get involved which can defer based
on the industry to things like customer
success implementation Etc it's across
the customer Journey um um and then it
also generally starts with I think um
the way I would think about revops is it
is it is it includes the remit includes
things like laying out the operational
foundations for how do we think about
all of these functions and how do they
grow right an example could be I think
you mentioned this right a consistent
sales methodology or how do you think
about territories and incentive plans
all the way from that and then it also
includes aspects of sales and goto
Market strategy which is how do we think
about an ideal customer profile what are
the markets we should be going after
what does the coverage model look like
to be able to support those markets and
the system support that you talked about
which is like okay now that I have the
right processes in place how do I put it
into systems so I make it repeatable
right and I increase the efficiency and
productivity of my teams um and then
finally I would be remiss not to mention
enablement and this is something that I
have seen come in and out of sometimes
like a revops function however I believe
enablement is an integral part of
Revenue operations because it it has not
just like the content of enablement but
also the overall that's why the process
of it right what is the value chain of
information flowing from whatever the
source to the actual audience and being
able to tailor it by audience becomes
very
important all makes a lot of sense um a
quick recap at least of my
interpretation of what you said which is
um this function of operations as it
applies to any goto market organization
incorporates um the following systems
process um some like strategy that is a
combination of data analysis and driving
strategy from the trends that you
realize in data and enablement and
sometimes this function begins dedicated
to a specific Department like sales
marketing um maybe even like customer
success um and as you expand to uh
include something like Revenue
operations or go to market operations
that's tying the operations of all of
these different functions together I
think that's exactly right and I think
you referred to it I will just highlight
like I think there is an there's a pure
operational component as well right that
goes beyond systems and processes which
is like Hey how do I think about what
are the key metrics that matter for this
business what does success look like how
are we doing against those metrics if
you're not doing well do I need to dig
deeper and understand why we're not
doing well so that like running the
business uh aspects of both the metrics
and then what are the actions we need to
take right and then making sure we're
taking those actions like that is also
an important part of how you would think
about this this team perfect okay so we
have a bit of a definition of what this
team um does and its remit and what
success looks like so let's start along
this sort of company Journey um from the
very beginning when do you think is the
right time to hire a dedicated sales Ops
Revenue Ops just any person fulfilling
these uh uh uh duties yeah so I think
you you the way you teed up the question
is exactly right I've what I have seen
generally seen is that it starts within
a function right like generally what you
see less of is someone coming in saying
oh I need a revenue Ops Team right you
generally start seeing a sales Ops
person being hired or a marketing
operations person and being hard right
all the way from saying hey I now have
more than two sellers now I need to
start defining the sales methodology or
I need to set standard processes or I
need to think about incentive plans and
codas like all of that starts happening
and then for marketing I need to find
someone who can help me with campaign
management or am I leveraging the Right
tools to be able to scale so I think you
that's the way you see um it generally
lead in I think the one thing I do want
to call out though is um oftentimes when
we when we see this higher we see them
as
a this is Shifting Sam so it's it's not
always the case but I've often seen it
be much more of an operational or
tactical person hire it's like oh I need
someone just to do my systems work I
need someone to run my run analysis on
all of this information that I have I
need someone to do campaign management I
I I would encourage people to think a
little bit beyond and bring that
strategy component in sooner versus
later because there's tremendous value
and that may probably go to the P type
of person you're hiring as well but like
there is tremendous value in helping
this this person helping you think
through how you should scale right like
what does that look like what are the
things you need to keep in mind as you
scale it's uh it's super interesting
Lots going through my mind just around
my personal experience uh both with
zenefits and then with brex and at
zenitz I pushed off hiring anyone in
this function for too long I didn't have
an appreciation for it this was also
back in like 2013 was when I originally
joined I think the the function was less
maybe common within early stage startups
around that time and now much like I
have grown to to have such an
appreciation I think that that
appreciation exists more broadly um and
then based off of my experience at
zenefits which was incredibly positive
with sales operations and ultimately
Revenue operations
I I pushed very early to invest in um
making these hires and developing this
function I I remember almost day one
like one of the first hires I wanted to
make and and um was explicit about this
with Pedro Enrique was somebody on the
operation side um and so as we were
hiring our first like set of sales reps
which was probably like four or five
almost immediately I wanted to sort of
like pair those those hires with also
making a sales Ops higher Revenue Ops
higher um and the the skill set and this
is where we're going to go next um I I
think the skill set that often times uh
uh is solved for in that higher is
systems related and it's because it's
sort of like the immediate pain point
that exists the company is two to eight
sales reps which is maybe the uh range
with which I would suggest making this
higher you know any anywhere between 2
and eight and I think like you know 2
and eight there's a big Delta there if
you're growing quickly higher uh and by
growing quickly I mean making lots of
sales highes I would invest in this
earlier if you were growing more slowly
um you you probably need less support on
the uh uh strategy and operation side in
the very early days um and so then uh
you know I probably solved a bit for the
systems experience and I think what
you're saying is uh maybe pair that with
some of the the the like strategy
experience go go maybe one L or deeper
there yeah absolutely so I think the
reason I would say that's exactly right
and I think it is like it it's in the
way you frame the question as well like
there was there was a lot of insight in
that Sam so I'm going to pull out that
thread a little bit as well which is I
think often times it's like it's saying
what is the right level of growth how do
I think about scale right is it two or
three or eight right like what does a
productive seller mean right often times
having someone who's a partner in crime
to like the sales leaders because again
you mentioned this earlier like if you
think about this General profile of a
sales leader this is not something that
they may have extensively worked in or
they may have a lot of personal
experience in in terms of actually
building functions like those or working
in functions like those right and so
when you bring someone who's like a
partner in crime and is like constantly
asking you those questions hey Sam have
you thought about this right like or
have you thought I know we think we need
to hire like not like we need to grow
fast to eight but I don't know I think
you may want to think about these
considerations or I see that you're not
thinking about hiding fast like have we
thought about X Y and Z and so having
someone who has a slightly different
skill set right like that partnership is
actually very critical right and what
you want early is early on is not just
someone who'll be like because what you
will get with that systems are is like
thank you Sam I see what you want to do
let me do it for you right versus
someone who comes in and says are you
sure Sam is that the path you want to
take let's talk about what this means
two years out three years out right yeah
it it's really smart I think the way
that I the way that I probably
approached it um or or have thought
about it in a way was that the first
operations hire would sort of be systems
oriented because that was sort of like
the immediate pain Point um and often
times
like the those two skill sets like being
really sophisticated at systems and then
being really good at like sort of like
data analysis strategy don't necessarily
pair in the same person and so I
probably indexed on the former which is
systems uh over strategy and not on the
business partner side of things but and
then for the business partner that
you're describing which is what you were
uh for me but but when brex was far more
mature uh so like maybe maybe um the
takeaway is uh
uh H have someone that can solve the
system stuff but is also senior enough
and sort of um business oriented enough
to to be your partner in leading the
organization um versus just the system
side of things so I think I I I would
Nuance that a little bit I think Sam I
think you may still decide that it is a
system person right but the the point is
that like definitely give it thought be
intentional about it like don't don't
always go to the systems person first
because that's how you saw someone else
like like five other people do it um I
think the reason to be intentional is
each business is different each
business's needs are different and you
may not have the ability to invest in
those resources right like and so I
think just being more intentional about
it and seeing the like the different
value that people can create because
you're absolutely right it's a very rare
skill set to be able to do both right
and there are people who can but it
makes it rare they're rarer to find
right and then you're like hey do I want
a leader with that capability or like
the first person I don't want to I want
to hire is not the leader right and so
there's like different like there are
different ways to go about it the the
the point is making sure that you're
being intentional and thoughtful about
that hire and seeing where you can get
the most value okay makes a lot of sense
be deliberate about the um skill set
that you are hiring for and then um good
segue to uh what is the like profile or
profiles that you may want to then
recruit from yeah so I've seen different
uh different things and I think we we
kind of covered a little bit then there
are pros and cons to each right I think
that you could start with a specific
skill set depending on the need which is
it could be systems but sometimes you
could also hire someone who is very deep
in data analytics right like it is
because you have a volume business right
and what you see is a number of
different data points coming in and you
need to be able to translate that data
into insights very quickly right what is
this telling me right and someone who
has the capabilities not just to work
through data right but able to surface
the right insights for decision- making
because that is very important and that
that that's like a level Beyond than
just someone who can run like SQL
queries right like so I think um so I
think we we you want someone to to go
beyond like I've seen people who like
hires that are systems oriented more
data and oriented and then depending on
the type of companies I've seen people
who start with enablement right and they
start with enablement because that is
the biggest like it's because things are
broken people don't know what it's just
a very complex sale and there are lots
of dots to be connected and so I've seen
that play out different ways um that
said I think there is there is an
argument to be made and i' I'm actually
seeing more and more of this is where
people start with the leader first right
which is hey the first person I want is
that thought partner and they can build
out the team right but then it depends
on the level of investment you're
willing to make up front but like that
like what that person is able to then do
is set the foundations in the right way
help think about the right people to
hire think about and also help you think
about what growth looks like right so
that's why like again depending on the
need of the business you could go either
the systems data deep enablement or you
could take a step back and say I want
someone who can grow with the company
doesn't have to be someone super but
like it has like that broad skill
broader generalist skill set and they
can dip their feet in into the
individual areas but like I want that
broad skill set makes a lot of sense so
I I think the the takeaway um uh that
I'm leaving from these comments with is
start by being very deliberate about two
things yep what are the um
responsibilities that you want this
person to own uh do you want somebody
that is uh uh spiking on systems and
very little around the sort of like data
uh analysis like quantitative side of
things do you want somebody who is um
more Jack of all trades let let's um
frame it as that so you start with the
function that you are looking for this
person to fulfill um and then you also
decide on the seniority do I want um
just one an individual contributor for
now um and as the business grows this is
likely somebody that we will top with a
manager to then build out a team or do I
want the leader to begin with and then
the profile is sort of a derivative of
those decisions that you make going into
the house that's exactly right yeah
makes sense um let's continue along so
um any any sort of like mistakes or
gachas that you've seen startups make in
uh making this higher or building out
this
function hindsight is
2020 right so I think it's always uh I I
want to caveat that time and not just
because
um like people I I don't mean it as oh
yeah okay right like that's that's
clearly obvious but I think the reason
I'm bringing that up is that this is
based on what I have seen and what I
have learned right like I know as I
continue to grow I will learn more and
there are other things that I myself
would have done differently right so I'm
just sharing my perspective here I think
one is something that you
mentioned aead like already is waiting
too long to hire this person I think I
have like oftentimes what happens is
when certain things get embedded in the
org changing them becomes much harder
right and also not just and intensive
right resource intensive right so I
think thinking through like having this
part like I love the fact that as soon
as you went to brex like this was a
conversation you had because you saw the
value in it starting that conversation
early doesn't mean it has to be like a
second Heart by any means but it it
should be something that you're
constantly thinking about in in that in
that in that intentionality bucket that
we talked about and then being
intentional about it right like who do
we want to hire um like do we want to
invest in the leader of the team that
grows with us first or who's helped us
scale first help has helped other
companies scale and can help us do that
first or do we want specific areas that
we need more support on um both in terms
of the type of role and the seniority of
the role and then the final thing I
think we also touched upon a little bit
is I have seen people try to get the
exact industry fit right they're like I
want someone who's worked in this
industry for this type of product
serving this type of customer base right
and I completely understand why that is
an important aspect of of of the job
description what the expectations are I
think the one thing I would want to call
out is the the strongest people I have
seen in this role even people who
eventually become uh go deep in systems
or enablement are generalists right and
the reason they're the strongest is for
multiple reasons they are able to
connect the dots right like that is a
very very important part of this
function is like they're not just
looking at their piece they're like oh
do I what are the dependencies right
like if I build a system what else
breaks right like who needs to be
involved what am I not thinking about
right like those skills are very
important right um and I would solve for
those those core
capabilities instead of solving for like
what would be something that you look
for and maybe other hires right like for
like if you're hiring if you're looking
to hire Enterprise or in SAS like I
totally get why you would hire a seller
who's done that before um or if you want
deep industry expertise I can understand
why you would hire a seller that that
goes has deep industry expertise but I
think for this function I think the
functional capabilities
they will pick up everything else right
like they will be able if you get a
strong person it's so interesting and
and I wouldn't have suspected this until
working with you um in your uh uh like I
don't know poster child or something
like that um as evidence of this coming
from Google which I I think like I would
have a bit of an allergic reaction to
hiring a sales rep at brex from Google
because of what you just described like
I don't know that it Maps necessarily um
and you came in you were incredible and
then there's somebody else that comes to
mind actually and it's it's Deep D and I
think Deep D was like a big bank I can't
remember her uh I remember exactly where
but um one of the the best people on
your team came from a big bank and you
really I think like solved for this
skill set versus um some of the uh
directly applicable experience uh at or
experience at a directly applicable
company uh maybe directly applicable
experience at the bank but uh uh it was
not a
startup um okay let's keep going so uh
we have I think defined U when to hire
this person some profiles to look for
when making this higher things to to
watch out for um and maybe not solve for
uh one thing that comes up commonly is
uh where this this team or or person
should sit within the organization
and I think the options that I have seen
I've always almost required it to report
to me um but or to to to sit alongside
me however you want to frame it um and
uh but I think it I've seen it live in
finance and maybe like a broader sort of
like Biz Ops or strategy Ops function
that has perview across the whole
company how do you think about that yeah
I think it's a great question so I have
seen it sit in two parts one is kind of
Central or like Finance right and then
it can be it can have a partnership with
bizops it can be like it there's
different combinations within that and
the reason why you see it in finance a
lot is one is because it is um there are
a lot of similarities in in terms of
like also the teams that this team has
to work with in addition to um and this
is why you also want that cross
functional generalist right like they
have to work with fpna they have to work
with accounting right because you could
have deal desk within this function they
have to work with different teams often
within the CFO space so I think there is
just a lot of synergies there anyways
right so I think there's there's there's
definitely I've seen this work within
reporting C Guild we report of the CFO
um I think the uh the other one is it's
TI closer to the business right which is
ccro function I think the one thing the
two things I would solve for right in
terms of both just just to keep in mind
one is who you want some you want the
team to sit in a place where the leader
whenever you're ready to hire the leader
can be a peer to your functional leaders
that a peer to your head of sales peer
to head of marketing peer to head off uh
customer success peer to head off like
bdr if that's a separate organization
right like or your sales architect team
right like and the reason they should be
peers is because you want them to one is
be able to challenge them a little bit
right like you you want that Dynamic you
want that yes I am absolutely supporting
and and a champion of everything that
you're doing but I am going to try and
influence you a little bit right and
creating that peer relationship actually
helps that a lot so I think that's one
thing to solve for I think eventually
when you build the team out you may not
stop that as sales offs right like but
like when you have a revenue operations
leader that is probably where you want
them to sit and then if you think about
like the other thing that I would solve
for and this is something to look out
for when the team sits in like a
function like the CFO function which is
a little removed like this team can only
be successful if they're fully embedded
with the function it's okay they it
organizationally somewhere else but they
have to be deeply embedded and what that
means is they're they're like very much
to like working side by side with the
sales team side by side with a marketing
team they should feel like they're a
part of the team like a test that I have
is they're attending all their offsites
and they're attending all their meetings
and they're spending much more time with
them than they're spending with their
other peers on the broader like s soe
team right and so I think that embedding
is very very critical because if that
doesn't happen then that dysfunction
cannot be
successful makes a ton of sense um what
I'm what I'm hearing or at least taking
away is um there uh are multiple options
here sounds like uh within Guild your
function reports into the CFO which is
different from the way that we had it
structured at brex neither way is right
or wrong but what does need to remain
consistent is the sort of embedding
within the goto Market team that you are
partnering with um ABS makes a lot of
sense let's let's stick with early stage
one thing that um came to mind as you
were talking earlier around some of the
like pitfalls uh that companies make
here is waiting too long to make this
higher um and so I'm just going to
revisit that and then we're going to uh
go more tactically into um where where
the biggest opportunities for this team
to have an immediate impact are but one
thing that came to mind as you said that
was um you know I referenced earlier
sales Ops Revenue Ops it was less of a
thing when I started in sales back in
2008 I'm aging myself a bit here um and
echosign we were like gosh 100 to 150
employees or thereabouts when Adobe
acquired us and we didn't have anyone in
sales Ops we had Brendan who is RVP of
sales and we had um I think I was a
manager at the time and you know maybe a
couple other managers and teams and we
we really ran the uh operations within
the department ourselves and then within
Adobe we were sort of assigned a um
sales Ops person and the experience was
like not great and I remember when I
went to zenitz this was again back in
2013 um when I went to
zenitz
uh I was a bit allergic to investing in
this function based off of one it was
like a little bit less common and also
not the most positive experience and I
remember I just kept talking to other
sales leaders trying to learn from them
who had done this before this was my
first time and one consistent theme came
out of every conversation we were
growing very quickly um and one
consistent theme came out of every
conversation it was like if you're
growing this fast you have to invest in
what was sales Ops at the at the time um
and I you know I would be like look I've
seen that and I don't need any of that
uh in those conversations um but
eventually I was like okay we should
probably do this and that's where uh I
very quickly gained some appreciation we
may been something like 20 sales reps at
the time we made our first hire but um
that's when you know based off of that
incredibly positive experience I came to
brex and EXA did exactly what you
described charishma which was um like
almost through the interview process
where where you know maybe there's a
question that's something like what do
you need in order to be successful the
first thing that would come to mind
would be I I need a really strong
operations counterpart um or
counterparts uh and so um you know just
reinforcing a bit uh for Founders and
other sales leaders out there having the
right people in place within this
function can just have an impact that is
uh truly game-changing um with that in
mind let let's stick to these early days
that we've been talking about and if if
you join a company as the first Revenue
operations leader do you see any
consistency around or sales Ops whatever
um do you see any consistency around
where the biggest opportunities to make
an impact on the business
lie yeah absolutely so I think um I will
try and uh categorize it into three or
four buckets uh Sam and knowing that
these are like this is a more generic
answer right like this is what I would
expect but that said I can imagine as a
as uh this hard comes in and there may
be a burning need for a specific problem
to solve or a challenge to overcome then
that probably takes precedence so the
four areas I would call out is one is is
building a strong analytical foundation
and what I mean by that is it's very
important to lay the groundwork for
these are the metrics that we should
look at these are the metrics that
indicate success both in terms of input
and out output metrics and also things
like this is what good looks like what
does it mean to be a productive seller
what does it mean to be what should have
velocity look like what should our Win
race like like getting into that Rhythm
like looking at the metrics we want to
to measure and then starting to Define
what good looks like I think that's
that's an important part and then slow
this evolves into what are the metrics I
need to insights I need to surface for
decision- making right that's kind of as
a level too in that the second I think
we talk a little bit about already is
around building the foundational
processes which is sales methodology how
do we work with our partner teams right
what are the roles and responsibilities
between if you have sales and solution
Architects or sales and BD sdrs vdrs if
you have sales and like where does
transition happen between sales and post
sales right like all of those thinking
about RNR and thinking about sales
methodology things thinking about all of
those processes that will help the
business
run I think the the third is uh this is
uh um the systems piece which is around
um hey as I develop I think it's it's
it's also important to make sure the the
timing of the the the sequencing of this
is right in a way oftentimes what you
want to do is make sure you have the
right
process before you put it in the system
right like you need to define the sales
methodology before you put it in the
system you need to Define like and so
what you will likely do is you will do a
few revs outside of a system before we
actually put it into a tool right and
that is actually good practice right so
if you see people are saying hey let's
just continue to work out of Google
Sheets or whatever tool that you use
right now and then we'll see if this
sits and then I'm going to put it in the
system I think that works right like
it's okay for for a little bit of time
to get it right in in a place and then
put it in the system because then that
is where you you feel like yes I it
makes sense for me to land here and then
the final which is my favorite thing of
course which is like early markers if
you can on go to market strategy which
is like um what is that addressable and
what segments should be prioritized why
what should a go to market approach be
how should be hide against it so awesome
super helpful I think we'll revisit um
maybe maybe the last one in the form of
like telling some stories around uh
things that we have seen Revenue
operations do and just have a a massive
impact on the business before we get
there um let's just quickly talk about
scaling um and how you think about
scaling this organization alongside the
rest of the business that is growing um
how do you think about the right um
number of people the revenue operations
team should have is it correlated to
sales headcount headcount in the re
Revenue operations work broadly um what
is this the sort of like best practice
there yeah I think this is this is a
really great question and this is
especially hard to do especially in a
scaling organization so let let me walk
you through what I mean um I've seen
people struggle with it there are ratios
absolutely there are ratios there are
ratios that I've seen would say it is
anywhere from five to seven to 10% of
the teams in scope right so you don't
want a sales Ops team that is bigger
than like 10% of your sales team like
similarly if you think about Revenue Ops
you think about functions more broadly
because it includes different not just
sales like it includes marketing and Cs
and so on so forth so that are
absolutely benchmarks right but you have
to be careful about using those
benchmarks for two reasons especially
when you're scaling a team um you may
have imagine you have like six different
teams already right and you just have
one or two people in each team doesn't
mean you can only do like two like one
person in Revenue apps because it'll be
very hard because some of the processes
still exist right just because you have
three sellers doesn't mean you don't
need an incentive plan or territories or
doesn't mean that you don't need an
actual like um like it just because you
have like two marketing people doesn't
mean you don't need to figure out top of
funnel right like like you still need to
do all of those things um and so I think
it the the ratios are really good
benchmarks to keep in mind but I would
layer it on with kind of a jobs to be
done framework as well where you're like
hey what are the things that I need
accomplish and what is the right number
of resources to help me get there right
and so that's a little bit of a bottomup
build so think about a job St down barma
build with a top down does it feel right
in terms of ratios is the approach I
would take got it makes sense and um
maybe what what comes to mind uh is a
couple things one uh is around
structuring the the team I think the way
that you did it at brecks was you were
my business partner we referenced Deep D
she was um Ashley Kelly who was our VP
of SDR she was Ashley's business partner
and we had Naomi who was uh our vbf
Channel sales Kurt his business partner
and so you sort of structured the team
around um uh this this like business
partner concept where people owned a lot
of the the different sort of like
functions I would say maybe except for
systems which seemed to be centralized
anyway I don't mean to answer the
question for you but how do you think
about um structuring this team and then
maybe um something that also comes to
mind that is slightly related to scaling
but like just in terms of measuring the
impact or how to determine success of uh
people or this function broadly um and
and how because it's like it's unlike
sales it is less objective
so we love your thoughts on both those
things totally so let me start with the
first one so first I would say thank you
for answering part of my
question okay so I think it's exactly
like my ideal stru and now I've like
tested it like three times um and so I
feel like it's resonated three times in
in actually different size organizations
right like so it feels a little sturdy
uh so that said I'm positive I learn and
will grow and this may evolve but like
one of the things that like the approach
that I take is yes definitely business
partner that tied to the functions right
so there is generally what I see is a
strategy and not person for sales bdr uh
for customer success for channel right
for marketing right like so you so see
those those functional ties and these
are these are your very strong
generalists these are the the thought
Partners they they can they're very very
strong operators right like the way I
would hire this person is very strong
operators that are also strategic right
you because you what you cannot
compromise on here is your basic
operational Foundation right so they are
um they are strong analytics analytical
people they are also strong at cap
capturing insights and surfacing the
right things they also understand how to
set incentive plans thinking about totas
or thinking about the funnel right like
they're they're good with like the
operations piece but they think about
problems strategically right so they're
not just like solving it but they're
thinking long term they're being good
influencers they're they're raising the
right questions right so that's the
business partner uh profile and then
that said there are certain functions
that I feel like are Specialists right
so you have the business partner
generalist and then you have the
specialist which is exactly what you
talked about like a systems role and the
reason you have generalists in here is
because of the type of profile you want
to hire and they're they're just like
spe they're specialist so why why
wouldn't you scale that right across the
different functions and by definition
systems should connect right like you
don't want someone just looking at Sales
Systems and someone just looking at
Marketing Systems and just looking at
customer success systems you want them
to talk to each other and all the more
reason it should be one team right and
similarly for enablement is a type of
skill set and you want them to come
together um and and and making sure that
they're sharing best practices right it
is one team that can does enablement
onboarding continuous education for all
of those different functions so there
are there are some that form like the
specialist
layer makes a lot of sense so um the way
that you have designed it uh and it
worked at brex was this concept of sort
of like business partner for each of the
leaders that is focused um largely on um
data analysis and strategy and uh uh
improving sort of like outcomes with
whatever the Mandate within that uh Team
uh would be and then systems and
enablement are centralized because of
the skill
set yes go ahead no I think the only
thing I was going to add is the Gil Gill
is a little different because it's a
marketplace right so we what we've also
centralized because we have different
types of customers right like you can
also centralize deal desk
profile right like but that doesn't
always occur in businesses so and then
um second second part of the question
was around uh uh sort of like measuring
the impact or success of this team which
is seemingly a bit more subjective
although there are a lot of um objective
data points that we could point to but
but like Le less clear maybe than
something like a a sales team it will be
right and that is that is the nature of
the role right and that is why what is
very very important for this team is
very clear objectives and what success
looks like right so one could say hey
this person is truly influencing like
it's hard to measure like is this person
a good influencer right like because the
point of influencing is that it feels
like you came to the decision together
right that's what influence is right um
and so oftentimes it becomes hard to say
oh look check the box success right and
which is why for this team especially
having very clear objectives say I want
to have by the end of this court a clear
forecasting process I want to have by
the end of this quarter like our sales
methodology defined right um and then
like making sure that we're keeping to
those objectives right um I think that
would be the way I would approach it I
think the one thing and I was debating
this with with my my manager just now
who who is the CFO of Gil and we we're
talking about it and we're like how do
we balance U making sure that teams are
giving it their all and and like they're
doing that like they're achieving that
objective but also instilling um an
atmosphere of test and learn especially
in the startup environment right like
you want people to be able to be a
little bit more Nimble and say I don't I
don't have to wait for the perfect
answer I'm gonna I have a good answer
I'm going to run with this I'm going to
learn and then I'm going to iterate I
think that is something that is that is
harder to do especially for teams like
this is like you want them to be able to
accomplish things and do it well but at
the same time be open to testing and
learning and evolving so I think that is
something even I'm trying to figure out
Sam how I incorporate that in my in my
objectives but that is something to
continue to to think about okay makes
sense let's end on maybe my favorite uh
topic that we we had planned to discuss
today which is um just around I can
think of
countless examples of things you and
your team um are or were responsible for
that changed the growth trajectory of
brecks and I'll talk about um in the
interest of time maybe just one of them
um but are there any stories that come
to mind of things that you or your team
have done that have been
transformational for a business that may
apply to listeners and their businesses
um and again sort of like going back to
the idea of sort of like tactically
coming away with something that maybe
you know this worked for tiisha and and
Sam in my story maybe we should try it
at our business totally and I'll give
you some very quick examples without
getting into the actual details of which
company because that's where a lot of
like context may not be relevant so
there was like our our team built a very
thoughtful incentive plan right that we
we are very clear these are the
behaviors we want to change incentives
Drive behaviors right and we created an
incentive plan to change those behaviors
and we were able to see that change
right that help us get to actual growth
and the direction the wanted to go that
was very fulfilling because that is
actually you see their impact right may
not be what it means as more productive
sellers or whatever it is like but of
course the sellers are are the ones that
got more productive but this that what
the team did helped influence that
significantly yeah what comes to mind
and sorry to interrupt because I know
you a couple others is is at brex when
we shifted the comp plan for SDR from um
like opportunities created to revenue
generated and the output of that was a
lot more Revenue um and and so maybe
that's what you're referring to but
I yes like I I've generally hesitant to
like call out specific company names as
well Sam you can with Brax right because
it's like it's also um being a little
bit more thoughtful about the actual
companies themselves and if they'd be
okay then I think this I can say for
Google Cloud we created uh a very clear
named account strategy and a segment
right so we created the named account
segment we created the strategy that
goes along with it and that saw
significant uptake and penetration in
that segment right and so it is not just
like saying hey what does that strategy
look like um it is what does that
segment look like what should be
included but also what should we do
different for them so that we drive the
result that we were trying to
drive um another one that we're working
through within Guild actually is we're
saying let's build a tiered service
model for our customer success team that
helps us not just think about how our
customer success team prioritizes their
time right and where they focus but also
other teams it's like creating a Common
Language across Guild where you say if
this partner is this tier what does it
mean in terms of not just this what
customer success is able to do for them
right but other teams also do for them
so it's creating that common language
with which can be incredibly helpful and
clarifying for folks um and then again a
more recent example with Gil is with uh
we doing this top of funnel work where
we we've we've looked at velocity we've
looked at conversion rates in our funnel
and then we say if I have to achieve my
growth aspirations for like two years
out three years out four years out what
do I because of our long sales Cycles
what do I need to do now in terms of top
of funnel so that I can drive that right
in the future um because those things
won't drive you in your target right
like there are future your targets so I
think making sure you have the right uh
data and like and just um uh like you're
using data to get to the right behaviors
you want to drive and then using that to
set targets is another cool example
makes sense all really great examples uh
I'll quickly tell one we we've probably
gone long over the the um time that we
normally go um you and I used to joke
that we we both talk a lot and so no
surprise there there we go yes and uh uh
okay so I remember um back at brex we
were noticing that there's just a lot of
variance in data around um deal sizes
and there was a big discrepancy between
the average opportunity size that an AE
was generating through outbound and the
average opportunity size that an SDR was
generating from outbound and then a lot
of variants again like the individual
contributor level where certain
individuals were creating much larger
opportunities than others um and it's
because like all of the activity that
people were doing was um like at their
own discretion maybe some like loose
guidance around you know these are the
types of companies that we think are
going to spend a lot of money um but
when you were in SDR or an AE you turned
your computer on in the morning like
what you did that day was ultimately up
to you like you got to pick which
account you add to the database which
contacts you go after in those accounts
um and UHC like you know again some
loose Direction around those things but
because of that we we sort of like led
to this outcome that was a wide variance
in performance and a wide variance in
things like opportunity size and so um
tradition I know you made a dedicated
hire ultimately that own this but um we
we put in place like a very
sophisticated lead scoring and
activity uh sort of um uh predicting or
activity recommending um system where we
knew exactly uh or we knew relatively
close um to what uh a company would
generate in terms of Revenue and so if
you're an SDR you opened up your
computer that day you actually saw
within your account territory these are
the accounts you should go after today
because they're going to generate the
most revenue and then within the account
you would see
these are the contacts you should go
after within this account because these
I think we called it a hustle score
these contacts have not been reached out
to in the longest period of time and or
this Persona has the highest probability
of convert because you know it's like um
maybe a CFO versus a controller and
those converted different levels and
then you even extrapolate it out further
because this is is a controller use this
message when you reach out to this
person um and so we just really
automated uh or or you I suppose really
automated like so much of the
subjectivity that led to um this like
variance in uh deal sizes and I think
the result of it was a few fold um
people were far more effective and
efficient but I think the like biggest
data point that we could point to was
something like a 3X increase in the
average opportunity size because people
were going after the opportunities that
generated the most most revenue for the
business in a very automated way versus
this sort of like subjective I'm going
to you know reach out to these
e-commerce businesses today because
e-commerce tends to generate a lot of
Revenue something like that um that is a
story that I think back on and there
were as I mentioned many others but just
the type of impact that Revenue
operations can have and you can imagine
if all other things remain consistent
and your deal size or opportunity size 3
X's um it took us for a few months to do
this um the outcome of that is is u3x
sales um again if everything else
remains consistent um we we did all
sorts of things like that but that was
one that had a big impact and I thought
maybe a good one to end on so Trisha
thank you for taking the time to join me
it's lovely to see you as um always I
miss you um to all of the listeners
thank you for uh listening to this
latest episode and we will see you soon
[Music]
I